 ABSTRACT: 
           Cricket is a bat and ball game played between two teams in a field of limited area. Both the teams consist of 11 players in 
it. Cricket in today's time is the most liked, played game that needs a machine learning analysis for more accuracy. As time continues 
more and more games are played which increases the data for the matches and individual players which requires proper analysis and 
accuracy. With increasing number of matches there are more players and thus data to analyse and predict the socres and the selection of 
players in a team, which team will win the game and so on. To do all this we need a machine learning models with high accuracy and 
analyze the data for it. 

KEYWORDS: machine learning, cricket, score prediction 

           This project involves data analysis and regression model development for predicting scores in cricket matches. I have applied 
machine learning linear regression model to predict the team scores without big data. The analysis uses historical match data to identify 
key features influencing match scores. The experimental results are measured through accuracy, the root mean square error (RMSE), mean 
square error (MSE), and mean absolute error (MAE). The given data are also plotted in graph for better understanding of the problem. The 
dataset used for this project is available in the README.md file of the GitHub repository. In doing the analysis various libraries were 
used such as numpy which is employed for numerical operations essential in model computations, pandas  for data loading, cleaning, and 
preprocessing, matplotlib for plotting of graphs for better understanding of the data analysis, scikit-learn is used to train a linear 
regression model, split the dataset into training and testing sets with train_test_split, and standardize the features using 
StandardScaler. These tasks ensured efficient model training, evaluation, and data preprocessing. 


           The flow of the project begins with the importing of various necessary libraries, data loading and preprocessing, handling 
missing values, encoding categorical variables. The given data set is split between training and testing sets for machine learning model 
and build the linear regression model. The built model is applied for predicition of test sets and calculate the evaluation metrics and 
finally combine the actual and predicted scores. Again matplotlib library is imported for plotting of graphs. Using this I have plotted 
the datasets graph for better understanding of realtionships between various data. Histograms, box plots, and rest are drawn. 


           By doing above machine learning regression and data analysis for cricket and score prediciton we come to the conclusion that by analysising various features such as runs, bowl_team, runs_last_t, venue, bat_team, etc that certain features such as wickets and overs had significant influence on score predicition and while others had less impacts.
